GPG Key handling (#1659)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/client-configuration/pages/snippets/trust_gpg.adoc

> Operating Systems either trust their own GPG keys directly or at least ship them installed with the minimal system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Operating systems either trust their own GPG keys directly or at least ship them installed with the minimal system.
```

> But third party packages signed by a different GPG key needs manual handling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But third party packages signed by a different GPG key need manual handling.
```

The clients can be successfully bootstrapped without the GPG key being trusted.
However, you cannot install new client tool packages or update them until the keys are trusted.

> Salt Clients use now GPG key information entered for a Software Channel to manage the trusted keys.
> When a Software Channel with GPG key information is assigned to a client, the key gets trusted
> as soon as the channel is refreshed or the first package gets installed from this channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Salt clients use now GPG key information entered for a software channel to manage the trusted keys.
When a software channel with GPG key information is assigned to a client, the key gets trusted as soon as the channel is refreshed or the first package gets installed from this channel.
```

> The GPG key url which is set of a Software Channel must exist. In case it is a file url,
> the GPG key file must be deployed on the client before the software channel is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// The meaning of the following sentence is not clear
The GPG key URL which is set of a software channel must exist.
In case it is a file URL, the GPG key file must be deployed on the client before the software channel is used.
```

> The GPG keys for the Client Tools Channels of {redhat} based clients are deployed on the client
> into [path]`/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/` and can be referenced with file URLs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The GPG keys for the Client Tools Channels of {redhat} based clients are deployed on the client into [path]``/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/`` and can be referenced with file URLs.
```

> Same happens for the Expanded Support GPG key. Only in case a software channel is assigned to the client
> they will be imported and trusted by the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Same is the case with the GPG keys of  Expanded Support clients.
Only in case a software channel is assigned to the client they will be imported and trusted by the system.
```

[NOTE]
====

> As Debian based systems sign only the metadata, there is typically no need to specify extra keys for signle channels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Debian based systems sign only metadata, there is typically no need to specify extra keys for single channels.
```

> If a customer setup an own GPG key to sign the metadata following ``Use Your Own GPG Key`` at xref:administration:repo-metadata.adoc[]
> the deployment and trust of that key is automated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user configures an own GPG key to sign the metadata as described in "Use Your Own GPG Key" in xref:administration:repo-metadata.adoc[] the deployment and trust of that key is executed automatically.
```

====

> === Customer defined GPG keys

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== User defined GPG keys
```

> Customers can define their own GPG keys to deploy to the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users can define their own GPG keys to be deployed to the client.
```

By providing some pillar data and providing the GPG key files in the {salt} filesystem, they are automatically deployed to the client.

These keys are deployed into [path]`/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/` on RPM based operating systems and to [path]`/usr/share/keyrings/` on Debian systems:

> Define the pillar key `custom_gpgkeys` for the client you want to deploy the key to and list the names of the keyfile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define the pillar key [literal``custom_gpgkeys`` for the client you want to deploy the key to and list the names of the key file.
```

----
cat /etc/pillar/mypillar.sls
custom_gpgkeys:
  - my_first_gpg.key
  - my_second_gpgkey.gpg
----

> Additionally create in the {salt} filesystem a directory named `gpg` and place there the gpg key files with the same name used in the
> `custom_gpgkeys` pillar data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally in the {salt} filesystem create a directory named [path]``gpg`` and store there the GPG key files with the name specified in the [iteral]``custom_gpgkeys`` pillar data.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// I think the ls command is here to show the contents of the directory.
// In this case, the ls is superfluous.

```

----
ls -la /etc/salt/gpg/
/etc/salt/gpg/my_first_gpg.key
/etc/salt/gpg/my_second_gpgkey.gpg
----

> The keys are now deployed to the client at [path]`/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_first_gpg.key` and [path]`/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_second_gpgkey.gpg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The keys are now deployed to the client at [path]``/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_first_gpg.key`` and [path]``/etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_second_gpgkey.gpg``.
```

The last step is to add the URL to the GPG Key URL field of the Software Channel.

> Navigate to menu:Software[Manage > Channels] and select the Channel you want to modify.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to menu:Software[Manage > Channels] and select the channel you want to modify.
```

> Add to [guimenu]``GPG key URL`` the value [path]`file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_first_gpg.key`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add to [guimenu]``GPG key URL`` the value [literal]``file:///etc/pki/rpm-gpg/my_first_gpg.key``.
```

====
Trusting a GPG key is important for security on clients. 
It is the task of the admin to decide which keys are needed and can be trusted.

> As a Software Channel cannot be used when the GPG key is not trusted, the decision of assigning a channel
> to a client is bound to the decission of trusting the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because a software channel cannot be used when the GPG key is not trusted, the decision of assigning a channel to a client depends on the decision of trusting the key.
```
